This proposal is submitted in conjunction with a number of others, forming a considerable collaborative network for this RFA.  The overall collaborative network is summarized in Figure XXX attached below.  Here we highlight the proposed work that we expect to directly interface with that of other groups in the collaborative network. 


  * **Efficient factorization methods** We propose to make use of efficient likelihood factorization methods to enable fast and accurate estimations of transcript abundances and posterior uncertainty from single-cell RNA-seq data.  Other collaborative network members are also working on efficient factorization methods for related problems.  For example, the work of **Elana Fertig's** lab focuses on the development of robust and efficient matrix factorization methods (as in CoGAPS) to determine relevant patterns in time-course expression data.  In the current proposal, they propose to parallelize these methods to make them more efficient.  We plan to work with Dr. Fertig to explore how the likelihood factorizations we adopt for transcript quantification can be used to help enable more robust and efficient transcript-level matrix factorizations under the CoGAPS model.
  
  * **Providing uncertainty-aware transcriptional profiles** The focus of Aim 1 of our proposal is the design and development of efficient and accurate estimates of the posterior uncertainty of transcriptional profiles derived from scRNA-seq data.  Given the increased levels of noise, sampling variability, and bias present in scRNA-seq data, we expect estimates of this posterior uncertainty to play an even more important role than it does in bulk RNA-seq data.  We expect the uncertainty-aware estimates we produce to be directly applicable to the proposed work of **Smita Krishnaswamy** and **Stephen Piccolo** on filtering and denoising such profiles, as well as to the variance-enabled factorization approaches of **Elana Fertig**.  Further, we expect that the robust predictions made by these collaborators' methods will help us in benchmarking and improving the accuracy of our abundance and uncertainty estimation methods.
  
  * **Reproducible workflows** We will 
